---
excerpt: "<p><strong>Tips on how to fix/tweak Windows applications and Microsoft Windows
  </strong></p>"
categories: []
layout: post
title: Tip Sheet
created: 1178222628
---
<p><strong>Tips on how to fix/tweak Windows applications and Microsoft Windows </strong></p><hr width="100%" size="2" />
  <ul>
    <li>USB Drives 
      <ul>
        <li>If you use an external USB disk drive with Windows 2000 or XP (and maybe with Vista), set HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\FileSystem\NtfsDisableLastAccessUpdate = 1. This reduces updates on the external drive. Having a lot of updates puts your MFT at risk if a poorly designed devices munges the USB bus for a second. 
          <br /></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><strong>Bluetooth</strong>
      <ul>
        <li>If your computer and your Bluetooth device aren't connected, check to see if Bluetooth Settings (via the Bluetooth icon in the tray) shows it as a connected device. If it is not shown as a device:</li>
      </ul>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <ul>
            <li>Close Bluetooth Settings, disable your Bluetooth via the computer's hardware or keyboard switch, and re-enable Bluetooth. This fixed it for me at least once.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <ul>
        <li>If you're using the Microsoft Bluetooth stack, you should see both of the following in Device Manager: 
          <ul>
            <li>[computer-name]/Bluetooth Radios/[your-Bluetooth-device-name]</li>
            <li>[computer-name]/Bluetooth Radios/Microsoft Bluetooth Enumerator
              <br /></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><strong>VMWare</strong> - See <a title="VMWare" href="/vmware">VMWare</a></li>
    <li><strong>Delay Connection to Windows Mapped Drives</strong>
      <ul>
        <li>When you map a network drive in Windows and select the &quot;reconnect at logon,&quot; Windows will re-map the drive when you next reboot and it will also &quot;connect to&quot; the drive. If you'd like to defer the connect until your first access of the drive: 
          <ul>
            <li>Set (or create DWORD) HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\NetworkProvider\RestoreConnection=0</li>
            <li>You'll get the drive re-mapped and it will show up in Windows Explorer with a small red X until you actually access the drive.<strong>VMWare</strong></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
  <ul>
    <li><strong>Windows Mobile 5 (Smartphone) - Cingular 3124 </strong><strong>(HTC StrTrk)</strong>
      <ul>
        <li><strong>how do i disable the startup and shutdown sounds on a Windows Mobile 5 Smartphone</strong>
          <ul>
            <li>Delete the value of WAV (\windows\STARTUP_422.wav) in HKLM\SOFTWARE\HTC\Startup</li>
            <li>Delete the value of WAV (\windows\STARTUP_422.wav) in HKLM\SOFTWARE\HTC\Shutdown</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li><strong>Recording voice tags</strong>
          <ol>
            <li>Make sure you are in a quiet room when you record the tag.</li>
            <li>Ensure at least one hard consonant in the tag.</li>
          </ol>
        </li>
        <li><strong>Using voice tags</strong></li>
      </ul>
      <ul>
        <li>&nbsp; 
          <ol>
            <li>Briefly press the &quot;Comm Manager&quot; button (left side, nearest the hinge)</li>
            <li>Speak the tag</li>
          </ol>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <ul>
        <li>The buttons! What do they do? 
          <ul>
            <li>Edge buttons 
              <ul>
                <li>Closed 
                  <ul>
                    <li>ALL - single-click = show external display</li>
                    <li>Right double-click = camera on</li>
                    <li>Left toggle double-click = volume control display (it works as volume control up/down when volume control is displayed) </li>
                  </ul>
                </li>
                <li>Open 
                  <ul>
                    <li>Right single = camera on; camera shutter</li>
                    <li>Left single click = enable voice dial and voice shortcuts</li>
                    <li>Left single hold = enable voice recorder</li>
                    <li>Left toggle = volume control
                      <br /></li>
                  </ul>
                </li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>Interior buttons</li>
            <li>Face buttons
              <br /></li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>x
          <br /></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>McAfee VirusScan Enterprise</li>
    <ul>
      <li>One of the McAfee modules provides &quot;Buffer Overflow Protection&quot; (BOP).&nbsp; In theory, this is a good thing.&nbsp; It prevents a virus from executing code by overflowing a data buffer into the stack or code area.&nbsp; In practice, you can get&nbsp;a BOP error if you have an add-on to Microsoft Outlook that writes a single byte past the end of a buffer.&nbsp; Since you're running the Enterprise edition of McAffee, your network administrator controls BOP, and any changes you make on your PC get overwritten within a few minutes.&nbsp; Your network administrator probably doesn't want to make a BOP exception for you.&nbsp; But there is a work-around.&nbsp; BOP monitors only a few .EXE files.&nbsp; Just copy OUTLOOK.EXE to NO-BOP-OUTLOOK.EXE and run the copy instead of OUTLOOK.EXE.</li>
    </ul>
    <li>z</li>
  </ul>
